Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences:  
Literature Review and Analysis
Riham Adel, PhD
Associate Professor   
College of Management & Technology  
Arab Academy for Science,  
Technology and Maritime Transport, Egypt  
E-mail : rehamadel@aast.edu
Abstract
Augmented Reality (AR) research has sparked both academia and practice interest. However, despite the 
increasing interest to study this emergent topic, till now the growing body of knowledge is mainly from engi-
neering and computer science disciplines. The aim of this study is to conduct a systematic literature review to 
identify, evaluate and synthesize (AR) emergent themes from business management publications in the last 
years. Hence, contribute to the literature with evidence-based results about the existing research progress, 
and classify into clusters with multidimensional interrelationships to help researchers build up on these find-
ings and expand (AR) research from business standpoint. The study is exploratory and qualitative in nature; 
a structured hybrid- narrative review method is used to extract unstructured data within articles. Thus, dis-
cover relevant patterns, uncover hidden thematic clusters, relationships, and identify multidimensionality of 
dominant concepts from the existing (AR) business literature. It was evident from the stream of research, that 
most of researchers’ have a clear interest in exploring the interactive nature of Augmented Reality (AR) as new 
digital technology and defining its experiential characteristics with a hierarchical set of dimensions that will 
affect customers’ perceptions of service operations. Hence, in line with these findings, and grounded on the 
service literature body of knowledge, Augmented Reality can be defined as: “smart service based technology 
that generate value-in-use experiences”.
Keywords: Augmented Reality (AR); Smart Service; Value-in-use; Experience. 
Introduction
Disruptive technologies evolving in recent years have showed instant implications in service industries. 
Yet in the newly digitalised era, service innovations are advancing towards smartness, whereas interactions are 
more intelligent, thus improving the potentials of value co-creation which is considered the central tenet of 
service-dominant (S-D) logic. 
S-D logic initially focuses on the active role of customers’ engagement in co-creation throughout integrat-
ing their personal resources (i.e. operant resources) with those of the firm (i.e. operand resources) to generate 
value-in-use, which is consequently determined by the customer’s evaluation of experience during consump-
tion. Furthermore, it is discussed that S-D logic can be complemented with virtual-based logic that is enabled 
by new technologies to create value from simple information sharing to big data analytics, thus support service 
network actors in recognising value (Lindhult et al., 2018; Bani-Hani et al., 2018; Buhalis et al., 2019).
* This article was submitted in November 2021, and accepted for publishing in December 2021. 
© Arab Administrative Development Organization- League of Arab States, 2024, pp 227-241،         DOI: 10.21608/aja.2021.108470.1182
227
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences ...
Obviously the rapid technological progressions have given organisations numerous opportunities to re-
think new alternatives for interacting and engaging with customers. Shankar et al. (2021) refer to technolo-
gies (i.e. internet of things; artificial intelligence; virtual and augmented reality; smart mirrors; face recognition; 
chatbots…etc.) by “Customer-Facing Technologies”. 
Such technologies enhance the value creation and radically transform consumers’ experience throughout 
facilitating engagement during customers’ decision making journey. It is acknowledged that these technolog-
ical transformations have an impact in almost all industries, shifting organisations’ attention towards smart 
operations that are characterised by real-time, instant interactive connectivity with value-chain actors. Con-
sequently, enhance information communication flow, digitalised solutions, and personalization of offerings 
to create an experiential value consisting of cognitive, emotional, and social dimensions (Hoyer et al., 2020).
Augmented Reality (AR) is viewed as one of the cutting-edge technological innovations, representing 
Mixed Reality (MR) that can be categorised into two types marker-based and marker less. AR is a blend be-
tween virtual and real environments, combining elements from both settings that interact simultaneously in re-
al-time. AR technologies can be utilised through devices such as laptops, smartphones, head-mounted display, 
and smart glasses to display layered information (i.e. rich media content that is communicated assimilating 
real-time telepresence) resulting from users’ interaction with their current surroundings, thus immerse them 
into virtual and pleasurable experiences (Roxo and Brito, 2018; Yussof et al., 2019). 
AR popularity grew due to its ability to virtually visualize objects/contexts throughout augmentation, 
thus expand the possibilities offered to industries by combining the physical and virtual worlds effectively, 
whereas traditional and digital environments co-exist to enable virtual real-time information display, products’ 
demonstrations, pre-purchase assessments to facilitate customers’ decision making and give them feelings of 
entertainment (Rese, Baier, Geyer-schulz, et al., 2017). 
The more users’ expectations and interactions in AR environment are congruent, the higher users are 
immersed in AR experiences. Therefore, chances are high that AR experience is perceived realistic when users 
have higher perceptions and feelings of physical presence inside the AR environment. It is argued that the three 
main features respectively (1) feelings of presence; (2) realism level; and (3) reality degree can be considered 
the main indicators of AR quality experiences (Cipresso et al., 2018). 
AR technologies have been applied widely in many fields including industrial, medical, tourism, retail, ed-
ucation, media and entertainment (Watson et al., 2020). The pervasive use of such revolutionary technologies 
pave the way for companies to shift from traditional services into smart ones. Leading companies are increas-
ingly embracing the use of AR technologies that offer a dynamic way to interact with consumers. Services are 
co-created with customers to provide them with interactive and novel experience simulation beyond physical 
environment (Caboni and Hagberg, 2019). Hence, it is expected an increase of $85 billion in AR market size by 
2025 (Kowalczuk et al., 2021). 
Despite the fact that AR offers customers with more informative and enjoyable consumption experiences 
throughout setting a frontline interface that displays virtual content which is customised based on each user’s 
personal information. Yet, it is argued that augmentation quality is indispensable to the establishment of posi-
tive users’ experience which is measured by the perceived value gained from using AR. On the other hand, sev-
eral researchers have stressed the importance of users’ privacy control. They assert that the extent of informa-
tion users is willing to share is dependent on the value they expect to achieve. Accordingly, it is claimed that AR 
technologies enabling users to have control over the access to their personal information will generate more 
engaging experiences, lower their levels of anxiety and perceived risks which enhance the customers’ quality 
of experience at time of the purchase. Consequently, it is determined that positive AR experiences will lead to 
customers’ satisfaction and willingness to purchase (Hilken et al., 2017; Poushneh and Vasquez-parraga, 2017; 
Watson et al., 2018; Poushneh, 2018; Perannagari and Chakrabarti, 2019). 
228
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
Therefore, AR should be observed from a quality-experience driven lens, rather than technology-driven 
one. AR quality of experience is influenced by virtual content that is perceived by the users who directly experi-
ence augmentation within a particular setting or application (Scholz and Smith, 2016). Thus, AR creates digital 
affordance that drives consumers’ experiences, and maximizes consumers’ engagement by involving them into 
quality interactive media experiences. These experiences of situated cognition can be classified into: (1) em-
bedded which is defined in terms of information integration within personal context in real-time to evaluate 
products/services; (2) embodied which refers to simulated physical interactions with products/services which 
improve customers’ ability to evaluate an offering; (3) distributive which is an extended experience where cus-
tomers share their experiences with peers to support them in products/service evaluation. It is noted that AR 
supplements reality with an enhanced view of physical environment by providing customers with embedded, 
embodied, and extended consumption experiences that are adaptive with their needs and tastes. Accordingly, 
it can be concluded that AR value propositions consist of digital content vividness, interaction, personalisation 
and connectivity (Hilken et al., 2018; Chylinski et al., 2020).
Although AR is the latest emergent technology mostly investigated in academia in the last few years, but it 
is still considered in its nascent stages. Most of the existing AR publications are dominated by computer science 
research studying technological and engineering aspects disregarding business perspective and service opera-
tions aspects. Furthermore, it was noted that the current AR body of knowledge lacks integration between differ-
ent disciplines which can help in developing more generalised models and measurement scales. Whilist, several 
studies are available to explain AR technologies’ acceptance and behaviors adoption models, but still there is an 
absence of academic research on how AR technology can transform service operations. Therefore, further re-
view is required to get a better understanding of AR value-in-use related aspects and new experiences resulting 
from using AR technologies (Rese et al., 2017; Scholz and Du, 2018; Roxo and Brito, 2018; Caboni and Hagberg, 
2019; Perannagari and Chakrabarti, 2019; Park and Stangl, 2020; Wedel et al., 2020; Hoyer et al., 2020). 
Accordingly, the purpose of this paper is to review the progress of business literature in Augmented Re-
ality (AR) to examine the main research streams discussed to date. Furthermore, discuss its effect on service 
operations’ transformation. The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: the next sections are present-
ing, First the systematic literature review methods. Second, elaborating findings with respect to three main 
characteristics that distinguish Augmented Reality (AR) including: smart service technology, value-in-use, and 
generated experiences. Third, examining how Augmented Reality (AR) is transforming of service operations. 
The final section discusses the theoretical and practical implications of the study, with recommendations for 
future research to be conducted.
Systematic Literature Review 
The aim of this section is to pinpoint the research progress related to the emergent topic Augmented 
Reality (AR) within business research area. A structured hybrid-narrative review is used to give an in-depth 
insight on existing body of knowledge. Therefore, it is essential to search and select the relevant studies for 
a comprehensive synthesis of literature (Cavalinhos et al., 2021). 
This study was conducted in May 2021 using Scopus and Web of Science Core Collection databases. 
Scopus and WoS are acknowledged to be principal academic search systems that provide access to multiple 
databases simultaneously. Both databases meet systematic review quality requirements such as broad scope, 
multidisciplinary coverage, available record types and effective query-based search that promote support for 
Boolean searching with different options for filtering content (Gusenbauer and Haddaway, 2020). 
Searching and Screening Procedure 
An initial search to scope peer-reviewed articles from high-impact journals with title and topics using the 
Boolean operators (AND); (OR) to identify articles addressing the concept of augmented reality experience 
229
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences ...
Table 1  Search Results Inclusion Criteria
Databases
Web of Science (WoS) Core Collection; Scopus
Topic
Augmented Reality
quality. The papers were searched using the following title “Augmented Reality Quality” (OR) “Augmented Re-
ality Experience” (OR) “Augmented Reality Value-
in-Use”. Then linking with the search strings key-
words for topics including “virtual quality” (AND) 
“service quality” (AND) “virtual experience” (AND) 
“experience quality” (OR) “quality of experience” 
(AND) “service dominant logic” (OR) “co-creation”. 
The preliminary search results from WoS 
Search Strings 
(title, keywords)
“Augmented Reality Quality”; “Augmented 
Reality Experience”; “Augmented Reality Val-
ue-in-Use”; “virtual quality” (AND) “service 
quality”; “virtual experience”; “experience 
quality”; “quality of experience”; “service 
dominant logic”; “co-creation”.
Indexes
SCI-EXPANDED, SSCI, A&HCI, CPCI-S, CP-
CI-SSH, BKCI-S, BKCI-SSH, ESCI.
Timespan
All years
Language
English
Document Type Peer-Reviewed, Full Text Articles
Research Area Business, Management, Economics
Source 
Academic Journals 
returned 8,686 titles and 466 titles from Scopus. 
Yet, the results were refined to include only En-
glish, peer-reviewed full-text articles published in 
academic journals in business and management 
research area across all years (See Table 1). Guid-
ed by the inclusion criteria, the final search results 
displayed 27 titles from WoS and 23 titles from 
Scopus published from 2012 to 2021.
First, the 50 articles retrieved from Scopus and WoS were scanned for duplicated titles using Mendeley 
which resulted in retaining 45 after removing 5 similar articles from both databases. Second, to ensure the 
quality of the articles included in the study, only articles from journals listed in the academic journal guide 
for Chartered Association of Business Schools (ABS) are included in the study (Paul & Benito, 2018). Sub-
sequently, 34 titles were identified eligible papers to be included in the systematic literature review. Finally, 
cross-referencing was used to identify additional papers relevant to the study, 9 new papers are identified 
and added after checking the scope of the topic, the inclusion and quality criteria. As a result, the refined 
final list consists of only 42 articles as illustrated below in Table 2.
Table 2 Distribution of Papers Selected from ABS Journals, Authors and Date of Publication
Journal Title
Articles
Authors, Year
Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services
7
(Hollebeek et al., 2020; Huang, 2021; Javornik, 2016; Li 
and Fang, 2020; Poncin and Ben Mimoun, 2014; Poush-
neh, 2018b; Poushneh and Vasquez-Parraga, 2017)
Journal of Business Research
5
(Brannon Barhorst et al., 2021a; Flavián et al., 2019a; Hudson et 
al., 2019; Matarazzo et al., 2021; Sung, 2021)
Tourism Management
2
(He et al., 2018; Park and Stangl, 2020b)
Tourism Management Perspectives
2
(Cranmer et al., 2020; Hsu, 2018)
Business Horizons
2
(de Regt et al., 2020a; Scholz and Smith, 2016)
Journal of Interactive Marketing
2
(Kim and Forsythe, 2008; Yim et al., 2017)
Internet Research
2
(Huang and Liao, 2017; Huang and Liu, 2014)
Personal and Ubiquitous Computing
2
(Litvak and Kuflik, 2020; Olsson et al., 2013)
Journal of Travel Research
2
(Chung et al., 2018; Tussyadiah et al., 2018)
International Journal of Retail Distribution Management
2
(Pantano et al., 2018; Perannagari and Chakrabarti, 2019)
International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management
1
(Milman et al., 2020)
International Journal of Engineering Business Management
1
(Kounavis et al., 2012)
Journal of Business Economics and Management
1
(Davidavičienė et al., 2021)
Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing
1
(Nussipova et al., 2019)
Journal of Destination Marketing Management
1
(Marasco et al., 2018)
Journal of Service Management
1
(Buhalis et al., 2019)
Journal of Services Marketing
1
(Huang et al., 2019)
Journal of Place Management and Development
1
(Jung and tom Dieck, 2017)
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science
1
(Hilken et al., 2017)
Futures
1
(Kymäläinen, 2013)
Qualitative Market Research 
1
(Cuomo et al., 2020)
Psychology and Marketing
1
(Rauschnabel, 2018)
230
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
Journal Title
Articles
Authors, Year
Technological Forecasting & Social Change
1
(Rese, Baier, Geyer-Schulz, et al., 2017)
ACM Transactions on Internet Technology
1
(Pascoal et al., 2020)
42
It was depicted that few papers in the management & business research area were published before 
2017, an increase in the publications from 2017 to 2021 was noted. Yet, it can be concluded that the amount 
of research from business discipline is not comparable to the research published from both engineering 
and computer science disciplines. However, as it can be seen in Table 2, both the journal of retailing and 
consumer services, and the journal of business research contribute with the highest number of published 
papers (n = 12) addressing Augmented Reality issue to date.
Data Extraction and Content Analysis
Document analysis is qualitative and analytical procedure that focuses on synthesizing data contained 
in research articles to extract rich information, discover relevant patterns and relationships from the existing 
body of knowledge. Further, set direction for additional research questions and new conditions to be ob-
served and investigated (Bowen, 2009).  As result, this approach is useful in studies designed to explore and 
explain a concepts throughout recognizing emerging words, patterns and themes within the data that are se-
lected and organized into codes and categories used for content analysis (Fereday and Muir-Cochrane, 2006). 
The textual information in the articles screened and selected for the study purpose was examined using 
“WordStat 8”, a content analysis software that includes numerous text mining and graphical tools that help 
exploring and extracting the content of articles. Accordingly, discover relationships between keywords, iden-
tification of the most recurring phrases, and clustering similar segments across articles. The process of content 
analysis involves conceptual analysis to quantify the frequency of concepts occurrence within sample cases 
analysed (i.e. peer-reviewed articles). Consequently, coding into a set of categories to examine and evaluate 
the relationships between concepts identified in the text to draw meaningful results and interpretations. 
The visual word cloud (See Figure 1) gives a quick graphical representation of words frequencies 
depicted within the documents analysed, 
whereas the size of each word indicate the 
occurrence level in the text. Thus, providing 
a good starting point to highlight the con-
cepts that appear frequently in the unstruc-
tured data. 
Consequently, start analysing the data 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Visual Representation of Words Frequencies Using 
in order to extract meaningful information 
that uncover the hidden thematic structure 
of the text. Then, creating a categorization 
dictionary to group words or phrases, and 
exclude low frequency items prior to using 
topic modelling procedure (See Table 3). To 
differentiate documents and extract more 
precise results about the various topics they 
contain, an analysis at the documents level 
is conducted to segment the dominant issues 
contained across the 42 cases. The emergent 
themes were categorized into 6 broad topics 
as illustrated in Table 3.
Cloud Graph
231
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences ...
Table 3 Topics Extracted from the Document Analysis
Topics
Keywords
Coherence Frequency No. Cases %Cases
0.471
1681
42
100.00%
Immersive 
Experience
mental imagery; virtual presence;  visual cues; verbal cues; dy-
namic cues; imagery process; design elements; information 
type; aesthetic appreciation; imagery vividness; information 
processing; augmenting immersive scenes; immersive experi-
ence; visitors willingness to pay.
0.449
1275
42
100.00%
Interactive 
Technology 
augmented reality (AR); virtual reality; smart glasses; robotic 
functions; robotic qualities; technology-human interactions; 
safety; service experience; playfulness feelings; positive influ-
ence; customer responses.
0.436
1227
41
97.67%
Customer 
Experience
customer experience; online shopping; digital technologies; so-
cial media; shared social experience; brand experience; shopping 
experience; social interaction; customer satisfaction; positive ef-
fect; service quality; purchase intentions; customer behaviour.
0.418
1050
40
95.35%
Ownership 
Control & 
Surveillance
physiological state; sense of ownership control; body surveil-
lance; consciousness; haptic imagery; explorative engagement; 
flow experience; rapport experience; online service experience; 
decision making; utilitarian and hedonic value perceptions.
Virtual Real 
0.372
1064
41
97.67%
Environ-
ment 
virtual world; virtual objects; physical world; mixed reality; real 
world; real time; augmented reality (AR) technology; smart 
glasses; smart retailing; smartphones; mobile AR applications.
User Accep-
0.364
933
40
95.35%
tance
technology acceptance; perceived usefulness; perceived ease of 
use; perceived enjoyment; user acceptance of information tech-
nology;  technology anxiety; attitude towards augmented reality.
To further explore the connections between concepts, an average-linkage hierarchical cluster analysis 
and multidimensional scaling mapping methods are used to create clusters from a similarity matrix. Key-
words that tend to appear together are combined into categories, the results are visually presented in the 
form tree diagram called Dendrogram (See Figure 2) and multidimensional concept map (See Figure 3) to 
depict a group of interrelated co-occurring concepts representing the overall meaning of the explicit con-
cepts extracted from the unstructured data and its relationships.
Findings and Discussion 
The digitalization wave has given birth to “Smart Technologies” and draws attention towards explor-
ing related issues to this concept rather than merely focusing on the technical aspects of these technologies. 
Smart technologies enabled intelligent use of data to deliver pro-active, personalised, adaptable services 
whereas customers are always the co-creators of value. 
It is recognised that AR is a smart technology that creates value for customers (Dacko, 2017). In conc-
trast to other smart technologies (i.e. RFID; self-services; mobile wallets;) that help customers to save time 
and effort during task performance, AR is an interactive offline-online technology that empowers customers 
to actively co-create their individualised smart service experience. The customer interacts with smart tech-
nology and participates in service co-creation which is a typical example of smart service encounter (Huang, 
2018). 
It was evident from the stream of research, that most of researchers’ have a clear interest in explor-
ing the interactive nature of Augmented Reality (AR) as new digital technology and defining its experien-
tial characteristics that will affect customers’ perceptions of service operations. Hence, in line with these 
findings, and grounded on the service literature body of knowledge, Augmented Reality can be defined as: 
“smart service based technology that generate value-in-use experiences”. 
232
 
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
 
Figure 2 Cluster Analysis - Dendrogram
 
Figure 3 Multidimensional Concept Map
233
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences ...
Augmented Reality (AR): Smart Service Based Technology
AR is a human-computer interaction technology that combines reality with virtual reality by applying 
computer-generated virtual information into physical world. AR is an intelligent display technology using 
either video-through or see-through devices, with accurate tracking 3D registration and variety of intelli-
gent interactions in real-time between users and virtual objects within real contexts (Brannon Barhorst et 
al., 2021b).
AR-based technologies consist of two categories with recognition features that enable the reproduc-
tion of augmented information without restrictions of place and time. The first, image-based which is a 
marker-based AR that recognizes artificial labels and visual tags. The second, location-based which is mark-
er-less AR that uses position data through GPS or wireless network as recognition method (Tsai, 2013).
AR uses digital devices to overlay virtual elements on the real world which stimulates users’ multi-sen-
sory involvement, permits three-dimensional and social interactions experience, as well as enabling users 
to have dynamic adjustments while viewing, trying and using objects. (Wedel et al., 2020). Accordingly, 
these AR features can allow customers to get access to real-time and adaptable virtual information that is 
integrated into their actual surroundings to create a complete sense of real presence experience (Park and 
Stangl, 2020a). 
It is denoted that AR main characteristics are categorised into: (1) degree of interaction with virtual 
and physical contexts, thus stimulates multisensory effects, called “immersion” which creates highly vivid 
experience that affect the degree of realism perceived within AR environment; (2) processing quality re-
fers to the reliability, promptness, responsiveness of requested services that allow users to edit and modify 
transmitted digital content within AR context quickly, efficiently and effectively; (3) visualisation quality 
is concerned with the quality of media content combined with the quality of digital devices presenting 
content; (4) information quality relates to the amount of information provided and information quality, 
in terms of its accuracy, completeness, availability, retrievablity, accessibility and relevance to the context 
in which it is intended to be used in; (5) personal information handling that derives users’ concerns about 
security assurance, privacy protection and control (Kowalczuk et al., 2021).
It is confirmed that customers will cognitively, affectively and behaviourally respond to AR service 
encounters that have key features aligned with AR characteristics and that gratify value-in-use experiences. 
Therefore, it can be concluded that AR is considered a smart service based technology characterized by 
offering customers with real vivid stimulation experiences that allow them to control and modify sensory 
stimulations (Huang, 2018). 
Augmented Reality (AR) Technology Value-in-Use
Drawing on S-D logic approach, organisations recognize that value is created in use and specific to 
a context, thus varies for each customer. The key characteristics of value-in-use consist of the customers’ 
active role in value creation, aligned with their context-specific goals’ achievement. This means that value 
can only be determined by the customers. Therefore, it is suggested that value-in-use can be understood 
by the perceived consequences arising from AR usage process. Accordingly, it is noted that value-in-use is 
defined by customers’ evaluation of AR consumption experiences that evolve over time and can be positive 
or negative. (Schwipper et al., 2020; Font et al., 2021). 
Holbrook (2006), states that value resides only in experience, which implies that AR value-in-use has 
experience-based characteristics that can be refined based on value typologies (Gallarza et al., 2017). Expee-
riential value can be viewed with respect to Holbrook’s typology of consumer’s value encompassing three 
continuous dimensions (1) intrinsic and extrinsic benefits; (2) reactive and active activities; (3) self and oth-
234
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
ers orientation, that were used to categorise value into four main groups including: economic, hedonic, 
social and altruistic. Yet, Holbrook value typology is not exhaustive, instead it can be used as guidance to 
explore new additional value types (Stewart Loane et al., 2015). The experiential values are gratifications 
resulting from sensory attributes of the overall perceived experience either through direct or indirect inter-
actions with products/services (Tandon et al., 2014). Therefore, seamless sequence of cognitive, affective 
and physical responses resulting from human-technology interactions facilitated by AR technologies are 
key components for value-in-use experiences that can occur through direct or indirect participation of users 
in activities within AR context (Brannon Barhorst et al., 2021b).
Augmented Reality (AR) Technology Generated Experiences
Nowadays, reality-virtual technologies have redefined customer experience, taking into considera-
tion that different technologies can directly or indirectly support “core experiences” by adding value to the 
customer journey stages, thus creating integral technology-enhanced experiences. On the other hand, “em-
powered experiences” resulting from the vital role technology plays will also generate new experiences 
either related or unrelated to customers’ core experiences (Flavián et al., 2019b). 
Yet to date, it was determined the scarcity of attempts to identify users’ experiences with AR. Two main 
research streams related to users’ expectations from AR were acknowledged. The first category was mainly 
concerned with studying AR experiences characteristics including utility, pragmatic, hedonic and emotional 
aspects. The second category focused on discussing the design requirements that facilitate the delivery of 
interactive experiences (Park and Stangl, 2020a). 
It was mentioned that AR active experience is created and influenced by several factors including: vir-
tual AR content; users’ participation; and targets in the physical world (i.e. objects, ambient conditions) that 
are augmented. While AR passive experience encompasses non-participative users who just observe other 
users actions or view generated augmented content, and non-augmented targets (Scholz and Smith, 2016). 
Thus, AR provides a combined view of digital and physical world by embedding realistic digital con-
tent into users’ perceptions. Yet, it is argued that AR is not merely a technology, rather it is self-service quality 
enabler that achieves customizable value outcomes for customers through interactive, immersive, real-time 
and multi-sensory experiences induced by virtual media content (Heller et al., 2021; de Regt et al., 2020b) 
As a result, conventional services’ operations are transformed into smart ones, creating an entirely different 
customer experience concept that can be labelled with “Smart Experience” (Kabadayi et al., 2019). 
Future Research Directions
This study responds to calls for research about Augmented Reality (AR) to better understand how it 
can effectively transform service operations. The study synthesizes existing literature and summarizes the 
most valuable findings of the discussed topic. This review extracted and analysed the most important AR 
emerging themes in research to date. Yet, there is still a need for further academic research to investigate 
these trends, in order to provide academia and practitioners with the information necessary to enhance 
their service operations. It is evident that Augmented Reality (AR) technologies give users instant access to 
real-time information compiled with audio-visual media content through numerous sources, thus provide 
personalised experience and enhance the quality of service operations.
Given the interdisciplinary nature of service operations research, the identified key themes can be 
discussed from different disciplines (i.e. marketing, human resources, information systems, technology & 
innovation, psychology, sociology, engineering…etc.) to instil new insights into future business and man-
agement research. Acknowledging the fact that AR is an interactive technology, human-technology interac-
235
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences ...
tions increased and replaced human interactions within a service encounter as well as workplace. Involving 
people in the production and delivery of services is a distinguishing feature of Augmented Reality (AR), 
Thus, it is crucial to further study the role of customers and employees in co-production and co-creation 
of operations and its effect on service performance. Moreover, to date, most of the research is focusing 
on technology acceptance theories that study people behaviours and attitudes, no clear framework or ap-
proach has been yet developed to study how technology-based interactive service operations are designed, 
managed and controlled to measure service operations performance.
It is clear that technology advances have driven the creation of service ecosystems where, customers 
are key actors in value co-creation throughout integrating required resources. Thus, it is essential to further 
investigate the uncertainty and variability emerging the actors’ roles in new service ecosystems. Thus, re-
quires studies about appropriate network structures and configuration to create value from information ex-
changed in real time to deliver customisable service operations and create new experiences. Consequently, 
rethinking the quality characteristics of interactive service operations and experiences generated has be-
come a fertile research area, whereas a review and update of the existing service quality body of knowledge 
is necessary to accommodate the developments of new technology-based operations. 
236
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
References
- 
Bani-Hani, I.; Pareigis, J.; Tona, O. and Carlsson, S. (2018). “A Holistic View of Value Generation Pro-
cess In A SSBI Environment: A Service Dominant Logic Perspective”, Journal of Decision Systems, 
Taylor & Francis, Vol. 27, No. sup1, pp. 46–55.
- 
Bowen, G. A. (2009). “Document Analysis as a Qualitative Research Method”, Qualitative 
Research Journal, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 27–40.
- 
Brannon Barhorst, J.; McLean, G.; Shah, E. and Mack, R. (2021a). “Blending The Real World And The 
Virtual World: Exploring the Role of Flow In Augmented Reality Experiences”, Journal of Business 
Research, Elsevier, Vol. 122, No. January, pp. 423–436.
- 
Brannon Barhorst, J.; McLean, G.; Shah, E. and Mack, R. (2021b). “BlendingtThe Real World and the 
Virtual World: Exploring the Role of Flow in Augmented Reality Experiences”, Journal of Business 
Research, Elsevier, Vol. 122, No. August 2020, pp. 423–436.
- 
Buhalis, D.; Harwood, T.; Bogicevic, V.; Viglia, G.; Beldona, S. and Hofacker, C. (2019). “Tech-
nological Disruptions In Services: Lessons From Tourism and Hospitality”, Journal of Service 
Management, Vol. 30, No. 4, pp. 484–506.
- 
Caboni, F. and Hagberg, J. (2019). “Augmented Reality in Retailing: A Review of Features, 
Applications and Value”, International Journal of Retail and Distribution Management, 
Vol. 47, No. 11, pp. 1125–1140.
- 
Cavalinhos, S.; Marques, S. H. and Fátima Salgueiro, M. (2021). “The Use of Mobile Devices 
in-Store and the Effect on Shopping Experience: A Systematic Literature Review and Research 
Agenda”, International Journal of Consumer Studies, No. March, p. ijcs.12690.
- 
Chung, N.; Lee, H.; Kim, J. Y. and Koo, C. (2018). “The Role of Augmented Reality For Experi-
ence-influenced Environments: The Case of Cultural Heritage Tourism in Korea”, Journal of 
Travel Research, Vol. 57, No. 5, pp. 627–643.
- 
Chylinski, M.; Heller, J.; Hilken, T.; Keeling, D. I.; Mahr, D. and de Ruyter, K. (2020). “Augmented Re-
ality Marketing: A Technology-enabled Approach to Situated Customer Experience”, Australasian 
Marketing Journal, Elsevier Ltd, Vol. 28, No. 4, pp. 374–384.
- 
Cipresso, P.; Giglioli, I. A. C.; Raya, M. A. and Riva, G. (2018). “The Past, Present and Future of Virtual 
and Augmented Reality Research: A Network and Cluster Analysis of the Literature”, Frontiers in 
Psychology, Vol. 9, pp. 1-20.
- 
Cranmer, E. E.; Tom Dieck, M. C. and Fountoulaki, P. (2020). “Exploring the Value of Augmented 
Reality For Tourism”, Tourism Management Perspectives, Elsevier, Vol. 35 No. March, p. 100672.
- 
Cuomo, M. T.; Tortora, D.; Festa, G.; Ceruti, F. and Metallo, G. (2020). “Managing Omni-Customer 
Brand Experience Via Augmented Reality”, Qualitative Market Research: An International Journal, 
Vol. 23, No. 3, pp. 427–445.
- 
Dacko, S. G. (2017). “Enabling Smart Retail Settings Via Mobile Augmented Reality Shopping Apps”, 
Technological Forecasting and Social Change, Elsevier Inc., Vol. 124, pp. 243–256.
- 
Davidavičienė, V.; Raudeliūnienė, J. and Viršilaitė, R. (2021). “Evaluation of User Experience in Aug-
mented Reality Mobile Applications”, Journal of Business Economics and Management, Vol. 22 
No. 2, pp. 467–481.
- 
de Regt, A.; Barnes, S. J. and Plangger, K. (2020a). “The Virtual Reality Value Chain”, Business Hori-
zons, Elsevier Ltd, Vol. 63, No. 6, pp. 737–748.
- 
de Regt, A.; Barnes, S. J. and Plangger, K. (2020b). “The Virtual Reality Value Chain”, Business Hori-
zons, Elsevier Ltd., Vol. 63, No. 6, pp. 737–748.
237
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences ...
- 
Fereday, J. and Muir-Cochrane, E. (2006). “Demonstrating Rigor Using Thematic Analysis: A Hybrid 
Approach of Inductive and Deductive Coding and Theme Development”, International Journal of 
Qualitative Methods, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 80–92.
- 
Flavián, C.; Ibáñez-Sánchez, S. and Orús, C. (2019a). “The Impact of Virtual, Augmented and Mixed 
Reality Technologies on the Customer Experience”, Journal of Business Research, Elsevier, Vol. 
100, No. July, pp. 547–560.
- 
Flavián, C.; Ibáñez-Sánchez, S. and Orús, C. (2019b). “The Impact of Virtual, Augmented and Mixed Re-
ality Technologies on the Customer Experience”, Journal of Business Research, Vol. 100, pp. 547–560.
- 
Font, X.; English, R.; Gkritzali, A. and Tian, W. (Stella). (2021). “Value Co-creation in Sustainable Tour-
ism: A Service-Dominant Logic Approach”, Tourism Management, Vol. 82, No. February, p. 104200.
- 
Gallarza, M. G.; Arteaga, F.; Del Chiappa, G.; Gil-Saura, I. and Holbrook, M. B. (2017). “A Multidimen-
sional Service-Value Scale Based on Holbrook’s Typology of Customer Value: Bridging the Gap between 
the Concept and its Measurement”, Journal of Service Management, Vol. 28, No. 4, pp. 724–762.
- 
Gusenbauer, M. and Haddaway, N. R. (2020). “Which Academic Search Systems are Suitable for 
Systematic Reviews or Meta-analyses? Evaluating Retrieval Qualities of Google Scholar, PubMed, 
And 26 Other Resources”, Research Synthesis Methods, Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 181–217.
- 
He, Z.; Wu, L. and Li, X. (Robert). (2018). “When Art Meets Tech: The Role of Augmented Reality in 
Enhancing Museum Experiences and Purchase Intentions”, Tourism Management, Elsevier Ltd., 
Vol. 68, No. October, pp. 127–139.
- 
Heller, J.; Chylinski, M.; de Ruyter, K.; Keeling, D. I.; Hilken, T. and Mahr, D. (2021). “Tangible Service 
Automation: Decomposing the Technology-enabled Engagement Process (TEEP) for Augmented 
Reality”, Journal of Service Research, Vol. 24, No. 1, pp. 84–103.
- 
Hilken, T.; de Ruyter, K.; Chylinski, M.; Mahr, D. and Keeling, D. I. (2017). “Augmenting the Eye of 
the Beholder: Exploring the Strategic Potential of Augmented Reality to Enhance Online Service 
Experiences”, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, Vol. 45, No. 6, pp. 884–905.
- 
Hilken, T.; Heller, J.; Chylinski, M.; Keeling, D. I.; Mahr, D. and de Ruyter, K. (2018). “Making Om-
nichannel an Augmented Reality: The Current and Future State of the Art”, Journal of Research 
in Interactive Marketing, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 509–523.
- 
Hollebeek, L. D.; Clark, M. K.; Andreassen, T. W.; Sigurdsson, V. and Smith, D. (2020), “Virtual 
Reality Through the Customer Journey: Framework and Propositions”, Journal of Retailing and 
Consumer Services, Elsevier Ltd, Vol. 55 No. January, p. 102056.
- 
Hoyer, W. D.; Kroschke, M.; Schmitt, B.; Kraume, K. and Shankar, V. (2020). “Transforming the Cus-
tomer Experience Through New Technologies”, Journal of Interactive Marketing, Elsevier Inc., 
Vol. 51, pp. 57–71.
- 
Hsu, C. H. C. (2018). “Tourism Education on and Beyond the Horizon”, Tourism Management 
Perspectives, Elsevier, Vol. 25, No. January, pp. 181–183.
- 
Huang, T. L. (2018). “Creating A Commercially Compelling Smart Service Encounter”, Service Business, 
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 357–377.
- 
Huang, T. L. (2021). “Restorative Experiences and Online Tourists’ Willingness to Pay a Price Premi-
um in an Augmented Reality Environment”, Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, Elsevier 
Ltd., Vol.  58, No. January, p. 102256.
- 
Huang, T. L.; Mathews, S. and Chou, C.Y. (2019). “Enhancing Online Rapport Experience Via Aug-
mented Reality”, Journal of Services Marketing, Vol. 33, No. 7, pp. 851–865.
- 
Huang, T. L. and Liao, S. L. (2017). “Creating E-shopping Multisensory Flow Experience Through 
Augmented-reality Interactive Technology”, Internet Research, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 449–475.
238
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
- 
Huang, T. L. and Liu, F. H. (2014). “Formation of Augmented-Reality Interactive Technology’s Persua-
sive Effects from the Perspective of Experiential Value”, Internet Research, Vol. 24, No. 1, pp. 82–109.
- 
Hudson, S.; Matson-Barkat, S.; Pallamin, N. and Jegou, G. (2019). “With or Without You? Interaction 
and Immersion in a Virtual Reality Experience”, Journal of Business Research, Vol. 100, No. July, 
pp. 459–468.
- 
Javornik, A. (2016). “Augmented Reality: Research Agenda for Studying the Impact of its Media 
Characteristics on Consumer Behaviour”, Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, Elsevier, 
Vol. 30, pp. 252–261.
- 
Jung, T. H. and Tom Dieck, M. C. (2017). “Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and 3D Printing for 
the Co-creation of Value for the Visitor Experience at Cultural Heritage Places”, Journal of Place 
Management and Development, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 140–151.
- 
Kabadayi, S.; Ali, F.; Choi, H.; Joosten, H. and Lu, C. (2019). “Smart Service Experience in Hospital-
ity and Tourism Services: A Conceptualization and Future Research Agenda”, Journal of Service 
Management, Vol. 30, No. 3, pp. 326–348.
- 
Kim, J. and Forsythe, S. (2008). “Adoption of Virtual Try-on Technology for Online Apparel Shop-
ping”, Journal of Interactive Marketing, Elsevier, Vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 45–59.
- 
Kounavis, C. D., Kasimati; A. E. and Zamani, E. D. (2012). “Enhancing the Tourism Experience 
Through Mobile Augmented Reality: Challenges and Prospects”, International Journal of 
Engineering Business Management, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 1–6.
- 
Kowalczuk, P.. Siepmann (née Scheiben), C. and Adler, J. (2021), “Cognitive, Affective and Behav-
ioral Consumer Responses to Augmented Reality in E-commerce: A Comparative Study”, Journal 
of Business Research, Vol. 124, No. January, pp. 357–373.
- 
Kymäläinen, T. (2013). “Dreamnesting - Co-created Future Vision of an Intelligent Interior Design 
Experience”, Futures, Vol. 50, No. June, pp. 74–85.
- 
Li, C. Y. and Fang, Y. H. (2020). “I Searched, I Collected, I Experienced: Exploring How Mobile 
Augmented Reality Makes the Players Go”, Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, Else-
vier Ltd., Vol. 54, No. 151, p. 102018.
- 
Lindhult, E.; Chirumalla, K.; Oghazi, P. and Parida, V. (2018). “Value Logics For Service Innovation: 
Practice-driven Implications for Service-dominant Logic”, Service Business, Springer Berlin Hei-
delberg, Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 457–481.
- 
Litvak, E. and Kuflik, T. (2020). “Enhancing Cultural Heritage Outdoor Experience With Augment-
ed-Reality Smart Glasses”, Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, Personal and Ubiquitous 
Computing, Vol. 24, No. 6, pp. 873-886.
- 
Marasco, A.; Buonincontri, P.; van Niekerk, M.; Orlowski, M. and Okumus, F. (2018). “Exploring The 
Role of Next-Generation Virtual Technologies in Destination Marketing”, Journal of Destination 
Marketing & Management, Elsevier Ltd., Vol. 9, No. September, pp. 138-148.
- 
Matarazzo, M.; Penco, L.; Profumo, G. and Quaglia, R. (2021). “Digital Transformation and Custom-
er Value Creation in Made in Italy SMEs: A Dynamic Capabilities Perspective”, Journal of Business 
Research, Elsevier Inc., Vol. 123, No. February, pp. 642-656.
- 
Milman, A.; Tasci, A. and Zhang, T. (2020). “Perceived Robotic Server Qualities and Functions Ex-
plaining Customer Loyalty in the Theme Park Context”, International Journal of Contemporary 
Hospitality Management, Vol. 32, No. 12, pp. 3895–3923.
- 
Nussipova, G.; Nordin, F. and Sörhammar, D. (2019). “Value Formation With Immersive Technol-
ogies: An Activity Perspective”, Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, Vol. 35, No. 3, pp. 
483-494.
239
Augmented Reality (AR) Generated Value-in-Use Experiences ...
- 
Olsson, T.; Lagerstam, E.; Kärkkäinen, T. and Väänänen-Vainio-Mattila, K. (2013), “Expected User 
Experience 0f Mobile Augmented Reality Services: A User Study in the Context of Shopping Cen-
tres”, Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, Vol. 17, No. 2, pp. 287–304.
- 
Pantano, E.; Priporas, C.V. and Dennis, C. (2018). “A New Approach To Retailing For Successful 
Competition in the New Smart Scenario”, International Journal of Retail & Distribution Man-
agement, Vol. 46, No. 3, pp. 264–282.
- 
Park, S. and Stangl, B. (2020a). “Augmented Reality Experiences and Sensation Seeking”, Tourism 
Management, Elsevier Ltd, Vol. 77, No. November 2019, p. 104023.
- 
Park, S. and Stangl, B. (2020b). “Augmented Reality Experiences and Sensation Seeking”, Tourism 
Management, Elsevier Ltd, Vol. 77, No. February, p. 104023.
- 
Pascoal, R.; Almeida, A. De and Sofia, R. C. (2020). “Mobile Pervasive Augmented Reality Systems 
MPARS: The Role of User Preferences in the Perceived Quality of Experience in Outdoor Applica-
tions”, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 1–17.
- 
Perannagari, K. T. and Chakrabarti, S. (2019). “Factors Influencing Acceptance of Augmented Real-
ity In Retail: Insights from Thematic Analysis”, International Journal of Retail and Distribution 
Management, Vol. 48, No. 1, pp. 18–34.
- 
Poncin, I. and Ben Mimoun, M. S. (2014). “The Impact of E-Atmospherics on Physical Stores”, Jour-
nal of Retailing and Consumer Services, Elsevier, Vol. 21, No. 5, pp. 851–859.
- 
Poushneh, A. (2018a). “Augmented Reality in Retail : A Trade-off between User’s Control of Access 
to Personal Information and Augmentation Quality”, Journal of Retailing and Consumer Ser-
vices, Elsevier Ltd, Vol. 41, pp. 169–176.
- 
Poushneh, A. and Vasquez-parraga, A.Z. (2017). “Customer Dissatisfaction and Satisfaction With 
Augmented Reality in Shopping And Entertainment”, Journal of Consumer Satisfaction, Dissat-
isfaction and Complaining Behavior, Vol. 30, pp. 97–118.
- 
Poushneh, A. and Vasquez-Parraga, A. Z. (2017). “Discernible Impact of Augmented Reality on Re-
tail Customer’s Experience, Satisfaction and Willingness to Buy”, Journal of Retailing and Con-
sumer Services, Elsevier, Vol. 34, No. January, pp. 229–234.
- 
Rauschnabel, P. A. (2018). “Virtually Enhancing the Real World With Holograms: An Exploration of 
Expected Gratifications of Using Augmented Reality Smart Glasses”, Psychology and Marketing, 
Vol. 35, No. 8, pp. 557–572.
- 
Rese, A.; Baier, D.; Geyer-Schulz, A. and Schreiber, S. (2017). “How Augmented Reality Apps are Ac-
cepted by Consumers: A Comparative Analysis Using Scales and Opinions”, Technological Fore-
casting and Social Change, Elsevier Inc., Vol. 124, pp. 306–319.
- 
Rese, A.; Baier, D.; Geyer-schulz, A. and Schreiber, S. (2017). “Technological Forecasting & Social 
Change How Augmented Reality Apps Are Accepted By Consumers : A Comparative Analysis Using 
Scales And Opinions”, Technological Forecasting & Social Change, Elsevier Inc., Vol. 124, pp. 306–
319.
- 
Roxo, M. T. and Brito, P.Q. (2018). “Augmented Reality Trends to the Field of Business and Economics : 
A Review of 20 Years of Research”, Asia Journal of Business Research, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 94–117.
- 
Scholz, J. and Duffy, K. (2018). “We are at Home: How Augmented Reality Reshapes Mobile Mar-
keting and Consumer-Brand Relationships”, Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, Vol. 
44, No. September, pp. 11–23.
- 
Scholz, J. and Smith, A.N. (2016). “Augmented Reality: Designing Immersive Experiences That Max-
imize Consumer Engagement”, Business Horizons, “Kelley School of Business, Indiana Universi-
ty”, Vol. 59, No. 2, pp. 149–161.
240
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 3, September 2024
- 
Schwipper, S.; Peche, S. and Schmitz, G. (2020). “Mobile Location-based Services’ Value-in-Use in 
Inner Cities: Do a Customer’s Shopping Patterns, Prior User Experience and Sales Promotions Mat-
ter?”, Schmalenbach Business Review, Vol. 72, No. 4, pp. 511–564.
- 
Shankar, V.; Kalyanam, K.; Setia, P.; Golmohammadi, A.; Tirunillai, S.; Douglass, T.; Hennessey, J. et al. 
(2021). “How Technology Is Changing Retail”, Journal of Retailing, Vol. 97, No. 1, pp. 13-27.
- 
Stewart Loane, S.; Webster, C. M. and D’Alessandro, S. (2015). “Identifying Consumer Value Co-cre-
ated Through Social Support Within Online Health Communities”, Journal of Macromarketing, 
Vol. 35, No. 3, pp. 353–367.
- 
Sung, E. (Christine). (2021). “The Effects of Augmented Reality Mobile App Advertising: Viral Mar-
keting Via Shared Social Experience”, Journal of Business Research, Elsevier, Vol. 122, No. Janu-
ary, pp. 75–87.
- 
Tandon, A.; Tripathi, V. and Gupta, A. (2014). “The Transformation of Value and Evolution of Cus-
tomer Experience: An Exploration of The Typologies, Facets and Significance”, International Jour-
nal of Indian Culture and Business Management, Vol. 8, No. 4, p. 425.
- 
Tsai, K. C. C. (2013). “Affordances of Augmented Reality in Science Learning : Suggestions for Fu-
ture Research”, Journal of Science Education and Technology, Vol. 22, pp. 449–462.
- 
Tussyadiah, I. P.; Jung, T. H. and Tom Dieck, M. C. (2018). “Embodiment of Wearable Augment-
ed Reality Technology in Tourism Experiences”, Journal of Travel Research, Vol. 57, No. 5, pp. 
597–611.
- 
Watson, A.; Alexander, B. and Salavati, L. (2020). “The Impact of Experiential Augmented Reality 
Applications on Fashion Purchase Intention”, International Journal of Retail and Distribution 
Management, Vol. 48, No. 5, pp. 433–451.
- 
Wedel, M.; Bigné, E. and Zhang, J. (2020). “Virtual and Augmented Reality: Advancing Research in 
Consumer Marketing”, International Journal of Research in Marketing, Elsevier B. V., Vol. 37, 
No. 3, pp. 443-465.
- 
Yim, M.; Y. C.; Chu, S. C. and Sauer, P. L. (2017). “Is Augmented Reality Technology an Effective Tool 
for E-commerce? An Interactivity and Vividness Perspective”, Journal of Interactive Marketing, 
Direct Marketing Educational Foundation, Inc. dba Marketing EDGE, Vol. 39, pp. 89-103.
- 
Yussof, F. M.; Salleh, S. M. and Ahmad, A. L. (2019). “Augmented Reality: A Systematic Literature 
Review and Prospects for Future Research in Marketing and Advertising Communication”, Lecture 
Notes in Networks and Systems, Vol. 67, pp. 459–473.
.
241
