Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 2, June 2024
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in  
Health Care Organizations: A Field Study by Application on Baheya 
Foundation for Early Detection & Treatment of Breast Cancer
Heba Atef Ahmed Mohamed
Lecturer of Business Administration 
Faculty of Commercial Studies  
and Business Administration 
The Egyptian National University, Egypt 
Hatefahmed@eelu.edu.eg
Abstract
The research discusses the effect of applying the digital health system on the distinction of organizations 
and the high quality of health services provided through the case study “Baheya Hospital for Breast Cancer”, 
where the hospital management system and the system of providing health services to patients has been 
studied and compared to the quality of health care provided by the patients’ point of view; clarifying as well, 
the reasons that have led to the distinction of this hospital during the last record time from the time of its es-
tablishment until now.
The digital health system has been implemented, and accordingly, the quality of health services pro-
vided has been raised, which contributes to the distinction of the health institution, Where the data were 
collected, analyzed, and the results of the study have been extracted; indicating that the hospital’s distinction 
is indeed for being the first in the ranks of health care providers in Egypt that follow the application of the 
modern digital health system in hospital management, patient data, and artificial intelligence technology in its 
equipment and hospital treatment devices. The research ends by a recommendation concerning the impor-
tance of selecting this hospital as a model to be emulated in most health care institutions in Egypt; so that, we 
can achieve one of the goals of sustainable development, namely, raising the efficiency of the quality of health 
services provided to everyone with no differentiation, reducing as well, the number of deaths resulting from 
neglect or from cancer and serious other diseases.
Keywords: Digital health - Health Systems Technology - Electronic Health Records - Electronic Patient 
Portals. 
Introduction
Digital health is a new term referring to a sub-field of medicine by emphasizing the important role of 
new technology and artificial intelligence devices to facilitate scalable patient care (Timothy et al., 2020), 
an emerging field of study at the intersection of healthcare and digital technologies, which has attracted 
lots of attention in the past decade in many countries around the world. In 2019, the American Medical 
Association reported that companies have invested billions of dollars on new digital health entrepreneur-
ship (O’Reilly, 2020). Digital technology has become an integral part of healthcare, all set to revolution-
ize the practice of medicine. Digital technology has greatly improved operational efficiency regarding the 
* This article was submitted in September 2021, and accepted for publishing in December 2021. 
© Arab Administrative Development Organization- League of Arab States, 2024, pp 227-240،         DOI: 10.21608/aja.2021.95987.1156
227
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in Health Care Organizations  ...
standards of medical care. This transformation greatly has enhanced the holistic experience of both health-
care professionals and patients. According to the World Health Organization, digital health or the use of dig-
ital technologies in health - has become a prominent area of practice for employing routine and innovative 
forms of information and communication technology, to meet health needs Digital technology has also had 
a tremendous impact on healthcare in some areas, including improving access to medical information and 
data, as one of the biggest benefits of the digital revolution is the ability to store and access data. It also helps 
healthcare professionals retrieve patient data from anywhere. It also allows healthcare professionals to quickly 
share medical information with each other, resulting in more efficient patient care. Another great benefit of 
digital technology is that it allows clinicians to collect big data in the least amount of time. This data collection 
allows for accurate analysis and allows healthcare professionals to stay up to date with the latest technology 
and trends. Also, access to big data allows clinicians to more effectively identify risk factors and recommend 
appropriate intervention steps.
Hence, this paper tend to shed light on the theoretical framework of digital health and the excellence cri-
teria in the care organization using qualitative analysis. Furthermore, the researcher will use quantitative anal-
ysis to identify the relationship between the previous concepts. The paper structure will be as follows, firstly, 
the digital health concept and its significance is illustrated. Secondly, the excellence criteria and dimensions in 
healthcare organization are identified. Finally, field study on Baheya hospital had been conducted.
The Case Study
Of course, is that the hospital under study is currently unique of its kind in the community regarding 
the treatment of breast tumor diseases for women, and by the nature of its distinguished administrative 
structure and distinguished departments.
Literature Review
Our hopes and expectations for the future are to see digital health solutions developed as a response 
to healthcare inequality, climate change, as well as the spread of infectious diseases and other chronic dis-
eases, seeking to achieve the best medically and administratively performance (Senbekov et al., 2020).
This paper reviews and discusses recent attitudes and achievements in the field of digital health by re-
viewing publications focused on the application of artificial intelligence, “big data” telemedicine, and block-
chain technologies, as well as smart devices (internet of things) for solving the real problems in healthcare 
and medical education (Figure 1). The opportunities and main challenges in these areas are examined and 
intensively discussed. So far, we have identified more than 252 publications related to the digital health 
area. Nonetheless, the actual number of papers discussed in the article is limited to 152, due to the exclu-
sions criteria; and also, it is explained that the application of medical digital technologies can provide better 
access and flexibility to healthcare for the public. It includes the availability of open information on health, 
treatment, complications, and recent advances in biomedical research. Nowadays, even in low-income 
countries, diagnostic and medical services are becoming more accessible and available. However, many 
issues related to digital health technologies remain unmet, including reliability, safety, testing, and ethical 
aspects.
(Bhavnani et al., 2017) discussed that Healthcare transformation is the product of a shared vision be-
tween a broad range of stakeholders to establish the future of care delivery and to develop new patient-cen-
tered, evidence-driven models in which value is rewarded over volume. Important within this transfor-
mation, are newly developed and rapidly evolving technology-based innovations .These include: digital 
health with wearable, smartphone, and sensor-based technologies; big data that comprises the aggregation 
228
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 2, June 2024
of large quantities of structured and unstructured health information and sophisticated analyses with arti-
ficial intelligence, machine learning, and natural language processing techniques; and precision-health ap-
proaches to identify individual-level risk and determinants of wellness and pathogenicity. Although there 
is promise in the development of such innovations to shift traditional healthcare delivery to virtual and 
real-time styles and to empower the healthcare enterprise to utilize new technologies and data analytics, 
there remains a lack of true evaluation of whether these innovations actually improve outcomes and the 
quality of care.
Terminologies of Study:
The Digital Health Concept and Significance:
The arena of fitness care varies and could be outstanding and increasing this distinction day by day 
thanks to virtual fitness generation, which includes many capabilities that assist in offering digital gener-
ation in the subject of health. As virtual fitness helps in providing managers of the fitness group with all 
operational techniques and statistics on all jobs in any respect administrative degrees in the health group, 
as management in this smart way will cause a fundamental exchange in the degree of the health group and 
consequently the first-rate of offering care and health carrier, These functions also include providing better 
and more direct information to everyone about health and disease, providing direct support to health work-
ers and supervisors in diagnosing and treating patients. They will also provide verifiable and searchable 
records about births, deaths and health meetings (Marc & Lena, 2019).
Definition of Digital Health.
Different authors agree that digital health includes the use of various healthcare technologies in 
managing the healthcare offerings, definition of digital health need to consist of the stakeholders involved 
in healthcare provision and transport tactics. In addition to the definitions of digital health provided by 
(Kotskov, 2015) and also it is the convergence of digital technologies with health, healthcare, living, and 
society to enhance the efficiency of healthcare delivery (O’ Donoghue et al., 2019), Digital health solutions, 
particularly, the informational communication technologies, can be used to solve common integrated care 
problems. These technologies can make care transport approaches more efficient and help the brand of 
new methods of wondering and action needed to broaden modern fashions, inclusive of included care. 
Technologies also can enable a fee shift that could have an impact on the behaviors of caregivers operating 
in incorporated care fashions, making them a potentially effective implementation device (Guldemond, 
2021). Digital health not only uses electronic data, it also uses the latest devices that use artificial intel-
ligence and machine learning as primary ways in the domain of digital health to integrate with informa-
tion, communication technology and other technologies to solve the problems of consumers and patients 
(Rowlands, 2020). Service lifestyle in healthcare companies is becoming greater privy to the role of culture 
in improving the nice of carrier supplied to their clients. Buttimer (2008) asserted that health screening 
scan program enhance if there’s non-stop emphasis on provider excellence and the development of a car-
rier culture.
Study Problem
Throughout the previous mentioned notes, the theoretical literature and the results of previous stud-
ies, the study problem can be identified and formulated in the following question: 
“What is the impact of digital health and its strategies in developing resources and achieve 
excellence in the field of healthcare?”
229
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in Health Care Organizations  ...
Study Objectives
1- Clarify the importance of electronic medical records in saving time and facilitating the access of infor-
mation to doctors in hospitals.
2- Determining digital strategies to raise the level of performance in hospitals.
3- Clarify the role of digital health in achieving excellence in health care.
4- Emphasizing the importance of paying attention to digital health and developing it in hospitals, as 
one of the main pillars for achieving excellence.
Research Hypotheses
1- There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health and the reliability criterion.
2- There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health and the response criteria.
3- There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health and the safety standard.
4- There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health on the tangibility standard.
5- There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health on the standard of empathy.
The Importance of Digital Health
Digital health is centrally crucial to accomplishing ordinary fitness coverage with more efficient and 
powerful modes of presenting nice and equitable access to health for all. But, innovating towards a secure 
destiny enabled with the aid of digital fitness requires concretely linking investments for virtual fitness to 
achieving public health goals (World Health Organization, 2019). The adoption of digital technologies in 
health is crucial for well-functioning health systems and in empowering individuals as part of the transition 
to integrated, individual-centered care. Digital health also plays an important role in achieving the public 
health priorities established by the European Union (World Health Organization, 2019). Digital health is a 
key factor in reforming public health and health systems, improving access, impact and efficiency of health 
services, providing patient-centered services where individuals participate as active partners in their care, 
taking advantage of the full potential of digital health in a good way helps services to be safe, reliable, and 
available to all.
We can say that the transition to digital health has many benefits such as the availability of electronic 
records. There exist many problems with nowadays paper-primarily based affected person facts which in-
cludes the search for something in a patient file, and the warfare to read someone’s illegible handwriting 
from the affected person’s document. There has been lots of time lost for the existence of only one copy 
within the entire medical institution explains the patient’s chart, or the navigation thru masses of pages 
seeking out the solution to an easy query about the affected person is likewise one of the troubles of pa-
per-based totally patient statistics (Ahmed & Samir, 2004). All data is preserved in a computer environment 
without the need to keep medical and administrative information in a paper environment, archive it and 
easily access all information upon request; as all the forms used in the hospital (analysis request, general ex-
amination, doctor’s orders and patients, etc.) are organized and monitored on the system to prepare reports. 
It helps reduce medical errors by providing accurate and timely information as well as the date of entry and 
exit of each patient separately. It also works to prevent the waste and unnecessary use of hospital tools or 
the unlawful leakage of information by monitoring and following up all types of materials used in entering/
leaving the hospital. They help achieve the third goal of the sustainable development goals, ensuring that 
everyone enjoys healthy lifestyles, and develop solutions to reduce premature deaths from cancer and oth-
er serious diseases to one third by 2030 (Hayek, 2020).
230
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 2, June 2024
The Excellence Criteria and its Impact on Digital Health Care Organizations
Generally, we can define excellence in health care as an approach involved in everyday work prac-
tices, as we plan together to understand the needs of sufferers and deliver care inside the excellent useful 
way. In most cases, the matter is reflected in the way are we dealing with patients, visitors, and others. The 
fundamental concepts of provider excellence in healthcare include displaying enthusiasm for the carrier we 
offer and showing the attitude that we love our task and our sufferers for whom we provide care. Therefore, 
in this section, the researcher will identify the main criteria of healthcare excellence and how can digital 
healthcare affect the program of excellence of healthcare services.
The Healthcare Excellence Criteria:
Many literatures discussed the different criteria which lead to healthcare excellence such the criteria 
that describe how patients and customers must be treated to be satisfied. 
These criteria can be categorized as follows: 
- 
Accountability: Sets clear expectations for every member of the organization and holds them ac-
countable for achieving or not achieving/those expectations. We owe it to every single patient who 
comes in to have the right people working in the organization. If certain members of the staff are 
not measuring up, we have to hold them accountable. In addition, the leader of the hospital has to 
take ownership of the problems.
- 
Safety: It must be the foundation of everything the organization does. We should take our Hippo-
cratic oath very seriously and make sure that while patients are in our care, we do everything to 
keep them safe. 
- 
Visibility: When an organization is undergoing a cultural change, people need to see their leader to 
believe in him or her. They need to be in front of staff and patients/customers. 
- 
Accessibility: This is linked to visibility. Many hospital leaders spend too much time in their offic-
es, while spending insufficient times outside these offices or going around. In our organization, we 
have a communication board on every patient’s wall and my cellular number is on there, anyone 
can call me. That level of accessibility is important. 
- 
Collaboration: Hospitals are like a three-legged stool, with the community and patients as the one 
leg, the medical staff as the second leg and the employees as the third. If there is no effective collab-
oration between all three, the stool will fall over. All three parties must work together toward that 
objective of achieving excellence and shaping the culture of the hospital accordingly. 
- 
Reliability means that healthcare services are 
delivered accurately. 
Tangibles
- 
Responsiveness or willingness to help patients. 
- 
Assurance: it relates to courtesy and emotional 
support or building feeling of trust and safeness 
among patients. 
Empathy
 Responsive
ness
Service Qualic-
ty Dimensions
- 
Empathy: could be explained as individualized 
care, namely, it means that doctors, nurses, and 
the staff have personalized knowledge of patients. 
- 
Tangible: refers to functions of healthcare services.
Reliability
Assurance
Parasuraman, Zeithamel & Berry (1985) defined 
five dimensions for service quality, represented by the 
Figure (1)  (Parasuraman et al, 1985).
Figure (1) Service Quality Dimensions
231
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in Health Care Organizations  ...
Impact of Digital Healthcare Service to Excellence of Healthcare Service
The first benefit of digital data collection is that we can expect that the quality of the data will be im-
 
 
 
proved. Since data are being entered as part of the delivery of care rather than a separate data collection pro-
cess, we are likely to see reductions in data entry mistakes. Errors in data will be more apparent to the health 
worker. There will be fewer opportunities to simply make up data, as overworked health workers try to save 
time (Bram et al., 2015). Digital health will set the pace for the development and deployment of new medical 
applications and will change markets around the world. This technology will facilitate increased access to 
healthcare services (Rinsche, 2017). The current model of healthcare is that the patient must go to a health 
facility to get any kind of care or even advice, while the next goal will be to fully rely on digital health, which 
is to provide the care system to the patient himself instead of his actual presence to receive caring. Advances 
in the use of telemedicine and universal access to information and communications means that people no 
longer need to visit a clinic but can ask questions and receive advice and treatment recommendations over 
the phone or other devices (Bashshur et al., 2016). Consequently, the most important mechanism in the digi-
tal health system includes the most important and largest goal of this system which is the electronic personal 
health records. Its most important target is (saving) of a wide variety, saving wasted time in records and paper 
files, presenting a place that carries most of these papers and paper information, and offering extra people 
whose undertaking is to keep these big paper documents and update them with a tool that includes all these 
huge statistics without harm and without occupying area. Thus, the carrier reaches the most important wide 
variety of patients in need. Moreover, the benefits of making use of the digital health gadget to healthcare 
excellence are embodied in 
saving wasted time which 
consequently leads to the 
exploitation of this time 
within the crowning glory 
of a greater range of every 
day statements; the ease of 
follow-up with patients via 
easy get the right of entry 
to their facts, and therefore 
elevating the exceptional 
of the fitness care carrier 
provided to sufferers.
Figure 2 (Clarification Model of the Research)
Research Methodology
The current research relies on the descriptive and analytical approach to indicate the excellence of the 
service provided through the adoption of the digital health system and the extent of its importance in the un-
derstudy healthcare institution; in addition to analyzing the primary data by testing the research hypotheses.
Study Variables
From the previous studies, the questionnaire questions prepared for the study, which are compatible 
with the nature of the research study, were completed. where digital health was the independent variable 
in this study and excellence in the dependent variable.
232
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 2, June 2024
Study Limitations
According to the nature of the social conditions surrounding the community due to Corona virus, 
there was a difficulty in reaching the statistical sample to a higher level due to the difficulty of communicat-
ing with patients and the medical and administrative staff to complete the study questions. There has been 
another reason, that because the hospital has patients with immune diseases, there was a fear of infection, 
which made it difficult to enter the hospital most of the time to communicate with the medical, administra-
tive and patient staff to complete the study questions.
Measurement Instrument
The research has used a questionnaire form prepared by the researcher to examine “impact of digital 
health on excellence in health care organizations. (A field study by application on Baheya Foundation for 
Early Detection & Treatment of Breast Cancer)”.
Research Sample
- 
Research Population: The population of the research includes all staff of Baheya Foundation for 
Early Detection & Treatment of Breast Cancer which reaches up to (518) employees, in addition to 
a sample of patients who attend the hospital.
- 
Sample Size: Due to the large size of the society, the size of the employee sample to be drawn from 
a large statistical population, can be determined using Steven Thompson equation as following:
Population (N) = 518 
 
 
 
 
Staff Sample Size = 220.82 
 
 
 
 
 
0.05 1.96 
3.8416  
 
 
 
0.0025 0.5 
 
 
 
 
 
N 
Population 
 
 
 
 
 
z 
is the confidence interval, expressed as decimal for P-value     0.95 (1.96) 
d 
Error Percentage (0.05) p the ratio of availability & property. 
The online sample size reached 220 respondents.
The Statistical Approaches
Data were unloaded using the computer through the Statistical Package for Social Sciences Program 
IBM- SPSS V. 25, working as follows:
1- Testing reliability through Cronbach’s alpha coefficient to test the reliability of the questionnaire.
2- Testing the validity through the Pearson correlation coefficient between dimensions and total ques-
tionnaire.
3- Descriptive statistics of the data through tabulating data in the form of (numbers, percentage, mean, 
standard deviation and the weight percentile) for variables questionnaire.
4- Pearson correlation coefficient to prove the validity study hypotheses.
5- Simple regression to study the impact of independent variables on the dependent variable to prove 
the validity of the study hypotheses.
233
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in Health Care Organizations  ...
Table No. (1)
Research Results
The Reliability & the Validity of Questionnaire Dimensions
Reliability & Validity: 
Patient’s questionnaire
Employee’s question-
naire
Variables
Cronbach’s 
validity
r
Cronbach’s 
Alpha
Alpha
validity
r
First: The reliability
0.703
0.838 0.169*
0.555
0.745 0.172*
Second: response criteria
0.826
0.909 0.323**
0.729
0.854 0.508**
Third: the safety standard
0.639
0.799 0.479**
0.660
0.812 0.312**
To check the reliability of the 
questionnaire, the research-
er has used Cronbach’s alpha 
equation (Cronbach Alpha). 
The following table shows the 
reliability coefficients gener-
ated using this equation.
Fourth: the tangibility standard
0.647
0.804 0.673**
0.644
0.802 0.317**
Fifth: the standard of empathy
0.695
0.834 0.675**
0.642
0.801 0.486**
From the table (1), the 
Sixth: the digital health dimensions
0.698
0.835 0.931**
* Statistically significant at (0.05) 
          ** statistically significant at (0.01)
reliability coefficients of the 
Patient’s questionnaire & 
employee’s 
questionnaire 
Table No. (2)
were good values where the reliability coefficient values were > (0.5).
Number and Percent of 
The researcher calculated the validity by the correlation coefficient for 
the Staff’ s Job
Variables
No Percent
Employee
94
42.7
Management 32
14.6
Doctors
94
42.7
each dimension of the questionnaires to calculate the validity of the question-
naire dimension. The correlation coefficient values were statistically significant 
at (0.05) between questionnaire dimension and total questionnaire. Also, the 
intrinsic validity values were good as shown in table (1) which confirms the va-
lidity of the questionnaires.
Total
220 100.0
From the table (2) the greatest numbers were (Employee) & (Doctors) with 
Table No. (3) 
no. (94) percent (42.7%), while the number of (Management) were (32) with 
percent (14.6%).
From the table (3) the mean age for (Employees) was (38.4) with standard 
Means and Standard 
Deviations of Age 
(Patients & Employees)
deviation (8.6), while the mean age for (Patients) was (50.9) with standard de-
viation (7.4).
Sample
Mean
SD
Employees
38.4
8.6
Patients
50.9
7.4
Table (4) shows the following:
- 
The dimension average of (The reliability criterion) was (4.07) indicat-
ing response to the (agree) degree, with weight percentile (81.4%).
- 
The dimension average of (Response criteria) was (3.49) indicating re-
sponse to the (agree) degree, with weight percentile (69.8%).
- 
The dimension average of (The safety standard) was (3.96) indicating a response to the (agree) 
degree, with weight percentile (79.2%).
Table No. (4) 
Means, Standard Deviations and Weight Percentile of 
- 
The dimension average of (The tangi-
bility standard) was (3.94) indicating 
a response to the (agree) degree with 
weight percentile (78.8%).
Questionnaire’s Dimension (Patients)
Dimension
Mean SD Variation 
coefficient
Weight 
Percentile
Degree
Agree
The reliability criterion 4.07 0.4
0.10
81.4
Agree
- 
The dimension average of (The stan-
dard of empathy) was (3.96) indicat-
ing a response to the (agree) degree, 
with weight percentile (79.2%).
Response criteria
3.49 0.7
0.20
69.8
Agree
The safety standard
3.96 0.3
0.07
79.2
Agree
The tangibility standard 3.94 0.6
0.14
78.8
Agree
The standard of empathy 3.96 0.6
0.15
79.2
Agree
- 
The dimension average of (The dig-
ital health) was (3.41) indicating a 
response to the (agree) degree, with 
weight percentile (68.2%).
The digital health
3.41 0.4
0.13
68.2
Agree
234
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 2, June 2024
Table No. (5) 
Means, Standard Deviations and Weight Percentile of 
Questionnaire’s Dimension (Employee)
Dimension
Mean SD
Variation 
coefficient
Weight 
Percentile
Degree
Agree
Table (5) shows the following:
- 
The dimension average of (The reli-
ability criterion) was (4.14) indicat-
ing a response to the (agree) degree, 
with weight percentile (82.8%).
The reliability criterion
4.14 0.23
0.06
82.8
Agree
Response criteria
3.86 0.35
0.09
77.2
Agree
The safety standard
4.09 0.35
0.09
81.8
Agree
The tangibility standard 3.68 0.39
0.11
73.6
Agree
- 
The dimension average of (Re-
sponse criteria) was (3.86) indicat-
ing a response to the (agree) degree, 
with weight percentile (77.2%).
The standard of empathy 4.1 0.29
0.07
82.0
Agree
Table No. (6)
- 
The dimension average of (The safe-
ty standard) was (4.09) indicating a response to the 
degree (agree) with weight percentile (81.8%).
The Correlation Matrix between Digital Health 
and Excellence in Health Care Organizations
Variables
The Digital Health
- 
The dimension average of (The tangibility standard) 
was (3.68) indicating a response to the (agree) de-
gree, with weight percentile (73.6%).
r
P-value
The reliability criterion
0.406(**)
0.001
Response criteria
0.267(**)
0.001
- 
The dimension average of (The standard of empathy) 
was (4.1) indicating a response to the (agree) degree, 
with weight percentile (82.0%).
The safety standard
0.442(**)
0.001
The tangibility standard
0.552(**)
0.001
From the table (6) there are a significant correlation be-
The standard of empathy
0.533(**)
0.001
Total excellence in health care 0.359(**)
0.001
tween the digital health and excellence in healthcare organi-
zations, where Pearson correlation values were significant at 
P-value (0.01).
Research Hypotheses:
H1: There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health and the reliability criterion.
To study the effect of digital health 
Table No. (7)
The Simple Linear Regression Test to Study the Effect of Digital 
Health on the Reliability Criterion
Variables
R
R2
B
F
t
p-values
on the reliability criterion, a test by Sim-
ple Linear Regression was conducted 
and the results were as follows:
Effect of digital health on 
the reliability criterion 0.406 0.165 0.356 19.353 4.399 0.001
- 
The value of the correlation 
coefficient (R) concerning the 
relationship between the man-
agement, electronic records, saving time and the reliability criterion was (0.406).
- 
Regarding the results of the coefficient of determination (R2) of the Simple Linear Regression in the 
previous table, we find that there is an effect of the digital health on the reliability criterion, by (16.5%).
- 
The significance test of the regression model according to the value of (F), which is amounted to 
(19.353) is significant at (0.01) level, confirming the significance of the regression model.
- 
It is indicated through the test of significance of the regression coefficient (B) model that there is an 
effect of the digital health and the reliability criterion, relying on the value of (T), which is amounted 
to (4.399), proving to be significant at (0.01) level.
For the previous results, the H1 was rejected that “There is no statistically significant relationship be-
tween digital health and the reliability criterion”; while the hypothesis “There is a statistically significant 
relationship between digital health and the reliability criterion” was accepted.
235
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in Health Care Organizations  ...
H2: There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health on the response criteria.
This hypothesis examines the effect 
Table No. (8) 
The Simple Linear Regression Test Studies the eEffect of 
Digital Health on the Response Criteria
of digital health on the response criteria 
that is tested by the Simple Linear Regres-
sion Test.
Variables
R
R2
B
F
t
p-values
Effect of digital health 
on the response criteria 0.267 0.071 0.425 7.507 2.74 0.007
The results were as follows:
- 
The value of the correlation coeffi-
cient (R) to clarify the relationship between the management, electronic records, saving time and 
the response criteria was (0.267).
- 
Given the results in the previous table of the coefficient of determination (R2) of the Simple Linear 
Regression, we find that there is an effect of the digital health on the response criteria by (7.1%).
- 
The significance test of regression model based on the value of (F), amounted to (7.507) is signifi-
cant at (0.01) level, which confirms the significance of the regression model.
- 
It is shown through the significant regression coefficient test (B) model, that there is an effect of 
the digital health and the response criteria, relying on the (T)value and amounted to (2.740) which 
proves to be significant at level (0.01). 
From the previous results, H2 is rejected as “There is no statistically significant relationship between 
digital health and the reliability criterion”; while the hypothesis indicating that “There is a statistically signif-
icant relationship between digital health and the response criteria” is accepted.
H3: There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health and the safety standard.
Studying the effect of digital health 
Table No. (9)
the Simple Linear Regression Test to Study the Effect of 
on the safety standard was tested by the 
Simple Linear Regression and the results 
were as follows:
Digital Health on the Safety Standard
Variables
R
R2
B
F
t
p-values
Effect of digital health 
on the safety standard 0.442 0.195 0.275 23.784 4.877 0.000
- 
The value of the correlation coeffi-
cient (R) refers to the correlation 
between the digital health and the 
safety standard by (0.442).
- 
Regarding the results of the coefficient of determination (R2) of the simple linear regression in the 
previous table, we find that there is an effect of the digital health on the safety standard by (19.5%).
- 
The test significant model regression based on the value of (F), which amounted to (23.784) which 
is significant at level (0.01), confirming the significant regression model.
- 
It is indicated through the significant regression coefficient test (B) model, which explains an effect 
exists between the digital health and the safety standard, relying on the value of (T), which amount-
ed to (4.877) and proved to be significant at level (0.01). 
From the previous results, H3 is rejected “There is no statistically significant relationship between digi-
tal health and the reliability criterion” and the hypothesis that “There is a statistically significant relationship 
between digital health and the safety standard” is accepted.
H4: There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health on the tangibility standard.
Studying the effect of digital health on the tangibility standard was tested by the Simple Linear Regres-
sion and the results were as follows:
236
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 2, June 2024
Table No. (10) 
the Simple Linear Regression Analysis is Used to Study the 
Effect of Digital Health on the Tangibility Standard
Variables
R
R2
B
F
t
p-values
- 
The value of the correlation coef-
ficient (R) is used to indicate the 
relationship between the digital 
health and the tangibility standard 
was (0.552).
Effect of digital health on 
the tangibility standard 0.552 0.305 0.703 42.907 6.550 0.000
- 
Given the results of the coefficient 
of determination (R2) of the sim-
ple linear regression test in the previous table, we find that there is an effect of the digital health on 
the tangibility standard (19.5%).
- 
Testing the significance of the regression model, based on the value of (F), which amounted to 
(42.907) and significant at level (0.01), confirms the significance of the regression model.
- 
It is indicated through the significant model regression coefficient test (B), which shows that there is 
an effect of the digital health and the tangibility standard, relying on the value of (T), which amount-
ed to (6.550), being significant at level (0.01). 
From the previous results, H4 is rejected that “There is no statistically significant relationship between 
digital health and the reliability criterion” and the hypothesis that “There is a statistically significant relation-
ship between digital health and the tangibility standard” is accepted.
H5: There is no statistically significant relationship between digital health and the standard of empathy.
To study the effect of digital health on 
Table No. (11)
The Simple Linear Regression Test for Examining the Effect of 
the standard of empathy, that is tested by 
the simple linear regression test, where the 
results come as follows:
Digital Health on the Standard of Empathy
Variables
R
R2
B
F
t
p-values
Effect of digital health on 
the standard of empathy 0.533 0.284 0.694 38.888 6.236 0.000
- 
The value of the correlation co-
efficient (R) proves the relation 
between the digital health and the 
standard of empathy, represent-
ing (0.533).
- 
According to the results of the coefficient of determination (R2) of the simple linear regression in 
the previous table, we find that there is an effect of the digital health on the standard of empathy 
by (19.5%).
- 
The test significance of the regression model based on the (F) value, amounted to (38.888) is signif-
icant at level (0.01), which confirms the significance of the regression model.
- 
It is indicated through the significant regression model that (B) coefficient value which explains the 
presence of the effect of the digital health and the standard of empathy and rely on the value of (T), 
being amounted to (6.236) as significant at level (0.01). 
From the previous results, H5 is rejected that “There is no statistically significant relationship between 
digital health and the reliability criterion”; while the hypothesis “There is a statistically significant relation-
ship between digital health and the standard of empathy” is accepted.
The General Results
1- There is a statistically significant relationship between digital health and the reliability criterion.
2- There is a statistically significant relationship between digital health and the response criteria.
3- There is a statistically significant relationship between digital health and the safety standard.
4- There is a statistically significant relationship between digital health on the tangibility standard.
5- There is a statistically significant relationship between digital health on the standard of empathy.
237
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in Health Care Organizations  ...
The Conclusion
First of all, it can be concluded that service quality as perceived by customers is as a result of how well 
service matches expectations. Secondly, that service quality is determined by two dimensions, namely; ex-
pectations and experience and each of these dimensions has underlying factors. Thirdly, five factors deter-
mine the outcome of service quality which are used by the customers to complete judgement during service 
delivery, namely; tangibles, reliability, responsiveness, assurance and empathy. According to Ho, (2009), 
the customer-focused management paradigm quality is viewed as one component of the value created for 
the customer. It is managed into the process of making the product or service and is seen as synergistic with 
cost and delivery. Service quality is viewed as something that encompasses the entire organization. Since 
all functions are responsible for product quality and all share the cost of poor quality, quality is viewed as a 
concept that affects the entire organization (Ho & S. K. M, 2009).
238
Arab Journal of Administration, Vol. 44, No. 2, June 2024
References
- 
Timothy, D.; Aungst Pharm, D.; Chris Franzese Pharm, D; Yoona Kim Pharm, D. (2020). Digital 
Health Implications For Clinical Pharmacists’ Services: A Primer on the Current Landscape and Fu-
ture Concerns, DOI: 10.1002/jac5.1382, Journal of the American College of Clinical Pharmacy.
- 
O’Reilly, K. B. (2020). Digital Health Funding Hits $8.1 Billion: How to Spend it Wisely, [Inter-
net]. 2019 [cited 12 Sep 2020]. Available from: https://www.ama-assn.org/practice-management/
digital/digital-healthfunding-hits-81-billion-how-spend-it-wisely.
- 
Marc, Mitchell & Lena Kan. Digital Technology and The Future of Health Systems, ISSN: 2328-
8604 (Print) 2328-8620 (Online) Journal Homepage: https://www.tandfonline.com/loi/khsr20 .
- 
Kotskova, P. (2015). “Grand Challenges In Digital Health”, Frontiers in Public Health, 3:1-5.
- 
O’ Donoghue, John; Majeed, Azeem; Carroll, Christopher; Gallagher, Joseph; Wark, Petra A.; 
O’Connor, Siobhan; Akinlua, James Tosin; Fadahunsi, Kayode Philip. (2019). “Protocol for 
a Systematic Review and Qualitative Synthesis of Information Quality Frameworks in 
E-health” (inen). BMJ Open 9 (3): e024722. doi:10.1136/bmjopen-2018-024722. ISSN 2044-
6055. PMID 30842114. PMC 6429947. 
- 
Carolyn Steele Gray, Dominique Gagnon, Nick Guldemond and Timothy Kenealy, “Digital 
Health Enabling Integrated Care, March 8th 2021.https://doi.org/10.1108/ 978-1-83867-527-
120211012.
- 
Rowlands, D. (2020). What is Digital Health? and Why Does it Matter? [White Paper]. Health 
Informatics Society of Australia. Available from: https://www.hisa.org.au/ wpcontent/up-
loads/2019/12/What_is_Digital_Health.pdf.
- 
World Health Organization. (2019). Future of Digital Health Systems: Report on the Who 
Symposium on the Future of Digital Health Systems in the European Region, Copenhagen, 
Denmark, 6-8 February 2019. https://apps.who.int/iris/ bitstream/handle/1066 .
- 
World Health Organization. (2018). World Health Assembly. Digital Health. Geneva, (http:// apps.
who.int/gb/ebwha/pdf_files/WHA71/A71_R7-en.pdf,accessed 29 August 2019). 
- 
Ali, Ahmed Farag & Samir, Shahen. (2004). “E-Health: Challenges and Opportunities”, Conference: 
2ndCairo International Biomedical Engineering Conference at Cairo, (2004), https://www.re-
searchgate.net/publication/273777140. 
- 
Hayek, Hayam. (2020). Data Quality and the Transition to Digital Health. Part 2, 11/3/2020 
09:09:07 AM, http://blog.naseej.com.
- 
Parasuraman, A.; Ziethaml, V. & Berry, L. (1985). “Servqual: A Multiple Item Scale For Measuring 
Consumer Perceptions of Service Quality”, Journal of Retailing, 62(1), 12-40.
- 
Bram JT, Warwick-Clark B, Obeysekar E, Mehta K. (2015). Utilization and Monetization of 
Healthcare Data in Developing Countries. Big Data. 3 (2): 59-66. doi:10.1089/big.2014.0053. 
- 
Rinsche, Florian. (2017). The Role of Digital Health Care Startups, See discussions, stats, and 
author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/ publication/ 321179640 .
- 
Bashshur, R. L.; Howell, J. D.; Krupinski, E. A.; Harms, K. M.; Bashshur, N. & Doarn, C. R. (2016). 
“The Empirical Foundations of Telemedicine Interventions in Primary Care”, Telemedicine and 
E-Health, 22(5): 342-375. doi: 10.1089/tmj.2016.0045. 
- 
Ho, S. K. M. (2009). From TQM to Business Excellence, Production Planning & Control, 10 
(1), pp. 87-97.
239
The Impact of Digital Health on Excellence in Health Care Organizations  ...
- 
Thompson, S. K., and O. Frank, (2000). Model-Based Estimation with Link Tracing Sampling 
Designs, Component of Statistics, Canada, Catalogue no. 12-001-X Business Survey Meth-
ods Division, June 2000, 87–98.
- 
Sanjeev P. Bhavnani, Kapil Parakh, Ashish Atreja, Regina Druz, Garth N. Graham, Salim S. 
Hayek, Harlan M. Krumholz, Thomas M. Maddox, Maulik D. Majmudar, John S. Rumsfeld, 
and Bimal R. Shah (2017). Roadmap for Innovation—ACC Health Policy Statement on 
Healthcare Transformation in the Era of Digital Health, Big Data, and Precision Health: A 
Report of the American College of Cardiology Task Force on Health Policy Statements and 
Systems of Care, , JACC Journals › JACC › Archives › Vol. 70 No. 21.
- 
Maksut Senbekov, Timur Saliev, Zhanar Bukeyeva, Aigul Almabayeva, Marina Zhanaliye-
va, Nazym Aitenova, Yerzhan Toishibekov, and Ildar Fakhradiyev, (2020). The Recent Progress 
and Applications of Digital Technologies in Healthcare: A Review, Volume 2020 |Article 
ID 8830200| https://doi.org/ 10.1155 2020/ 8830200..
240
